So all the AWS services
we've been using so far are public.
That means that when we connect to them,
we are connecting to them publicly.
But if we use a VPC endpoint,
we can connect to these services using a private AWS network
instead of using the public internet network.
Why?
Well, this will give you a better security
because you're not going over the public internet
and also less latency because you don't access
the services through network hubs.
So let's take an example.
We have a VPC, a private subnet
and an EC2 instance in that private subnet
and say we want to connect to Amazon S3 or DynamoDB.
For this, we create a VPC endpoint of type gateway,
so you have to remember this,
the gateway endpoint is for Amazon S3 and DynamoDB only,
and using this EC2 instance,
you can connect through the gateway
into Amazon S3 and DynamoDB, but privately.
The other type of endpoint you have
is a VPC endpoint interface,
which is to connect to any other services on AWS,
for example, CloudWatch,
if you wanted to push a custom metric
from your EC2 instance into the CloudWatch service.
So for this, we'll have a VPC endpoint interface
and then the EC2 instance will connect to it
to connect to CloudWatch.
So let's access endpoint on the left hand side
under Private Link and Lattice,
just click on endpoint, not endpoint services,
and then you click on create endpoint.
As you can see, we have several options,
but we're going to choose the default one,
which is AWS services,
scroll down and then we have assist to the list
of all the services we can create endpoints for.
So you can see it's a lot of pages,
so you can scroll through them and have a look,
but pretty much every service out there is available.
So if I showed for EC2 for example,
I can see that I can create an interface endpoints
for the EC2 service
and then you will need to specify which
GPC and which subnets.
So this is the classic configuration
of an interface endpoint.
If you look for Amazon S3, for example,
as we can see, we have two options.
So we have access to the interface endpoints
and we also have access to a gateway.
So S3 is a possibility for a gateway,
but also has an interface.
But it's the only kind you can have, S3 has a gateway,
and the other kind for a gateway you will find
is also going to be DynamoDB.
So as you can see, DynamoDB here as an interface endpoint
as well as a gateway endpoint.
And that's it.
So just remember going to the exam
that pretty much every service has an interface endpoint,
but only DynamoDB and Amazon S3
also have a gateway endpoint.
And that's it for this lecture,
I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.